---
repository: "github.com/ehwest/mdn_qms"
folder: "PD"
title: "PD_0001_Product_Environment.md"
document_id: "PD_0001"
authors:
- github.com/ehwest
approvers:
- github.com/bewest
revision: "05"
approval_date: "2020-08-24"
effective_date: "2020-08-24"
description: "Product Environment Information"
---


# Product Environment Information

This document provides information regarding the environment within which T1Pal is expected to operate.
T1Pal should be understood to be both:

 1. "Medical Device" (an FDA term), and 
 2. "Software "as a service" (SaaS, an Information Technology term)."

## Software as a Medical Device

The requirements for T1Pal are intentionally aligned with requirements set forth by the FDA for a

"Continuous Glucose Monitor Secondary Display" found in the FDA classification of such "devices" on the FDA web site [here.](https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cdrh/cfdocs/cfpcd/classification.cfm?id=668)

A definitive description of the intended use(s) for the T1Pal product is described in the QMS here: 
[PD_0002_Intended_Use.md](https://github.com/ehwest/mdn_qms/blob/master/PD_Product_Definition/PD_0002_Intended_Use.md), within this folder.

The information in this present file should be understood to provide an aid to understanding those intended uses.
This document should NOT be understood as expanding or adding to the authoritative statements of Intended Use in the referenced document.

## Software as a Service

T1pal (aka T-one-pal, t1pal.com, T1Pal) is an operating software complex that provides
service to many individual independent users at once.  It is entirely
accessed through the Internet for all its purposes and capabilities.  
All users of this T1Pal.com software access it 
through the Internet, including administrative users, anonymous users, subscribers, 
security auditors, lawful law enforcement investigators, and maintenance
workers.  Controls within the complex provide for reliable separation of 
users based on strong authorization and encryption features consistent with HIPPA regulations.

T1pal is operated by, and is the product of, Medical Data Networks LLC., and other "partner organizations."
Notably, this includes developers of "Nightscout" project, and multiple open-source software providers.

Copies of the software complex may be deployed in other countries as may
be needed for regulatory purposes.  However, at this writing, all copies
of the software are operated within the United States.

## Scope Limited to Secondary Display And Its Capabilities & Limitations
The *secondary* 
display of T1PAL.COM does not replace primary real time continuous glucose monitoring or standard 
home blood glucose monitoring -- for any purpose whatsoever.
The T1Pal product will be labelled appropriately to convey this important principle.

Based on observations of users, 
one of the more valuable purposes of T1Pal is to create notifications to notify another person, a follower, 
of the patient's continuous glucose monitoring system sensor glucose information in real time. 
Such follower may be a relative, close friend, and/or physician, or a physician's Information Technology tools.

The complete T1Pal software complex is comprised of a number of semi-independent 
components and "micro-services", each installed on 
one or more 3rd party computing systems.

The T1Pal system receives and then creates displays 
of real-time patient data from one or more continuous glucose monitors (CGMs).

In addition to CGM data, however, 
the T1Pal system receives and displays real-time patient data derived from other sources.

Specifically, T1Pal also displays secondary display data of one or more
infusion pump devices, and/or one or more control processors (as may be provided
to control infusion pump activity).

Like the CGM data, pump infusion data (including settings, changes to settings, and faults), and
contoller data (including settings, changes to settings, and faults) also supporting secondary
display of their own data enabled by T1Pal.

It should be noted that ALL of the displays and reports generated by T1Pal are *secondary* displays
of data, and the patient is expected to refer to *primary device displays* for any purposes that involve
computing and/or executing any needed therapy.

Consistent with its role as a secondary display, T1Pal.com should require no prescription.

To use the software, consumers must apply for a monthly subscription-based
access to the server complex to receive the benefits of the service.

Subscribers access the service by using any of the following devices:
 + iPhone cell phone with an interent data service plan
 + Androidcell phone with an internet  data service plan
 + desktop or laptop PC with Firefox browser and Internet connectivity
 

# FDA de novo Pathway Defined
T1Pal is intended to align with the FDA definition of 
"Software as a Medical Device" as defined in the FDA guide ["Developing a Software Precertification Program -- A Working Model v1.0 January 2019](https://www.fda.gov/media/119722/download).

In addition, based on [2/13/2015 FDA Meeting Notes for Q141084/S002](https://github.com/ehwest/mdn_qms/blob/master/RM_Reference_Materials/minutes-pdfjam.pdf) the T1Pal project intends to use the proposed "de novo" regulatory pathway for the T1Pal "device" having these steps:

   + Register with the FDA
   + Meet special controls
   + Meet appropriate validations
   + Document quality controls
  
 Note that in the list above, there are "special controls" which are further enumerated as follows:
  
   + Devices must protect against unauthorizd access to and modification of data.
   + Device labelling must display the following warning "Dosing decisions should not be made based on this device.  The user should follow instructions on the continuous glucose monitoring system."
   + Device labelling must include the following limitation " this device is not intended to replace self-monitoring practices advised by a physician."
   
   The Quality Management System of the Medical Data Networks LLC is the means for providing guidance on device design so that the device supports special controls, meets appropriate validations.  In addition, the QMS provides for all documentation of quality controls.
  
## Responsibilities

 1. The CEO and VP-level employees are responsible for overseeing and maintaining this standard operating procedure and for assuring that all employees are trained in its requirements.
 2. It is the responsibility of all employees, contractors and departments at Medical Data Networks to adhere to this procedure.

