# Risk Management Process

Document Number|Title|Effective|Owner
---------------|-------------------------------------|----|-----
QP-0017|Risk Management process|9/1/2021|/s/ Ben West

## 1.  **Purpose**

 The purpose of this document is to define the policies and procedures
 for identifying, mitigating, and managing risk throughout the
 organization. These policies and procedures include risk analysis,
 risk evaluation, risk control, evaluation of overall residual risk
 acceptability, risk management reports, and production and
 post-production information.

## 2.  **Scope**

 The risk management procedure applies to all distributable and new
 development products. Risk management principles may be applied to
 non-product specific applications such as project management.

## 3.  **General**

3.1  **Definitions**

-   **Hazard –** potential source of physical injury or damage to the
     health of people, or damage to property or the environment.

-   **Residual Risk –** Risk remaining after risk control measures have
     been taken.

-   **Risk –** Combination of the probability of occurrence of hazard
     and the severity of that hazard.

-   **Severity –** Measure of the possible consequences of a hazard

3.2  **Responsibilities**

 **Engineering –** Engineering is responsible for initiating and
 completing the risk management plan. Engineering is responsible for
 evaluating design and processing changes for potential impacts to the
 risk management plan.

 **Quality –** Quality is responsible for the implementation and
 continued compliance to the risk management process.

 **Management –** Management is responsible for approving the risk
 analysis and evaluation criteria. Management is responsible for
 approving the overall residual risk acceptability.

3.3  **Equipment and Materials –** N/A

3.4  **Safety Precautions –** N/A

3.5  **Training Requirements –** Engineering and Quality are required to
     be trained on this procedure and the training documented.

3.6  **Record Management –** Risk management records shall be maintained
     in the Design History File (DHF) or associated development
     documentation.

3.7  **Reference Documents and Materials**

 **21 CFR 820** – FDA Quality System Regulations

 **SOR/98-282** – Canadian Medical Device Regulations

 **MDR 2017/745** – EU Medical Device Regulation

 **MDD 93/42/EEC** – EU Medical Device Directive

 **ISO 13485** – Medical Device Quality Management Systems

 **ISO 14971** – Application of Risk Management to Medical Devices

 **QP-0002** – Design Control Process

 **QP-0011** – Customer Complaints and Advisory Notice Process

 **QP-0012** – Corrective and Preventive Action (CAPA) Process

 **QP-0021** – Medical Device Reporting and Recall Process

## 4.  **Risk Management Process**

 The company utilizes risk analysis, risk evaluation, risk control, and
 evaluation of residual risk acceptability to manage the risks
 associated with each medical device. The risk management process is
 initiated during new product development and maintained throughout the
 product life-cycle. Risk management planning is incorporated into the
 Design Control Process (QP-0002) and documented with the Design
 History File (DHF). The Failure Modes and Effects Analysis (FMEA) is
 the primary tool utilized for risk management.

### 4.1.  **Risk Analysis**

 The risk analysis shall include the following:

-   A description and identification of the object of analysis

-   Identification of the person(s) and organization completing the
     analysis

-   The scope and date of the analysis

-   The intended use and reasonably foreseeable misuses

-   The characteristics that could affect the safety of the medical
     device

 The analysis shall identify known and foreseeable sequences or
 combinations of events that can result in hazardous situations. For
 each hazard, the associated risk(s) shall be estimated using available
 information or data. The risk estimate includes a component of
 probability and a component of severity.

### 4.2.  **Risk Evaluation**

 For each identified hazard, the company shall determine if risk
 reduction activities are required based upon accepted criteria. The
 criteria utilized for this determination shall approved by management.

### 4.3.  **Risk Control**

Risk determined to be unacceptable by the risk evaluation shall be
mitigated by risk controls. The following risk control options shall
be utilized in the priority listed:

-   Inherent safety by design

-   Protective measures in the medical device or in the manufacturing
     process

-   Information for safety included in labeling

The implementation and effectiveness of control measures shall be
verified and documented. Following implementation, the residual risk
shall be re-analyzed and evaluated to determine if additional risk
controls are required. The new controls shall be evaluated to ensure
no new hazards are introduced by the control and determine any impact
to the risk estimates of other hazards. All risks shall be reduced as
far as possible.

### 4.3.  **Risk / Benefit Analysis**

After completing all possible risk reduction, the company shall
conduct a risk/benefit analysis of the residual risk. The company
shall utilize data, literature, and expert opinion to determine if the
medical benefits of the intended use outweigh the residual risk. The
company shall only proceed if the medical benefit is determined to be
great than the residual risk and the associated justification is
documented.

### 4.4.  **Evaluation of Overall Residual Risk Acceptability**

Following the completion of the risk analysis, evaluation, and control
phases; the company shall determine if the overall residual risk posed
by the medical device is acceptable versus the benefit provided by the
medical device. For an overall residual risk that is judged
acceptable, the company shall determine which information is necessary
to include the in the associated labeling to disclose the overall
residual risk.

### 4.6.  **Risk Management Report**

Prior to the release for commercial distribution of the medical
device, the company shall complete a review and documented approval of
the risk management process. This review shall ensure:

-   The risk management plan has been appropriately implemented

-   The overall residual risk is acceptable

-   Appropriate methods are in place to obtain relevant production and
     post-production information.

    1.  **Production and Post-Production Information**

 Production and Post-Production risk management shall be completed
 through the design control, CAPA, and customer complaint processes.

 The risk management documentation shall be reviewed upon the
 following:

-   New or revised standards impacting risk management

-   Previously unrecognized hazards or hazardous situation are present

-   The estimated risk(s) from a hazard are determined to be inaccurate

-   The estimated benefits(s) from medical device are determined to be
     inaccurate

-   Changes have been made that potentially impact risk management

## 5.      Revision History

This document  QP-0017_R1_Risk_Management_Process.md
is subject to revision. Only the latest approved version should be used.

Major revisions are enumerated below.
The "latest" and only official version is found in the github document management system governs all QMS activity.

REV #|Doc ID|Effective Date|Description of Change
-----|------|--------------|---------------------
01   | QP-0017|12/17/2014|Initial Release
