# Identification and Traceability Process
Document Number|Title|Effective|Owner
---------------|-------------------------------------|----|-----
QP-0007|Identification and Traceability Process|9/1/2021|/s/ Ben West


## Purpose

This document defines policies and procedures for identification and
traceability of product throughout manufacturing and distribution.
These policies and procedures include product identification,
traceability, and status identification.

## Scope

This procedure applies to all products manufactured, either in-house
or by contract manufacturer, for distribution. Products produced under
investigational device exemptions are exempt from this procedure.

## Responsibility

* **Quality Management** – Quality Management is responsible for the
implementation and continued compliance with the procedures specified
in this document and by the regulatory authorities.

* **Training Requirements** – All Quality Personnel are required to be
    trained to this procedure and the training documented.

* **Record Management** – Final product manufacturing traceability and
    acceptance records are maintained within the Device History Record
    (DHR).

## Reference Documents and Materials

* **21 CFR 820** – FDA Quality System Regulations

* **SOR/98-282** – Canadian Medical Device Regulations

* **MDR 2017/745** – EU Medical Device Regulation

* **MDD 93/42/EEC** – EU Medical Device Directive

* **ISO 13485** – Medical Device Quality Management Systems

## Identification and Traceability Procedure

The company is responsible for the identification and traceability
requirements of products manufactured and distributed under the
company name. These requirements apply to products manufactured within
the company and those produced by contracted manufacturers.

### Product Identification

The final product and all components determined to be significant
shall be identified throughout the manufacturing process.
Identification shall be unique and clearly marked on the product,
where appropriate. Specific identification requirements for each
product are maintained within the Device History Record.

### Traceability Procedure

Traceability records for finished product are specified and maintained
within the Device History Record. Traceability requirements are
specific to the device produced and are dependent on the product risk.

Manufacturing records provide documentation of the manufacturing
processes and assurance the product was built per procedure to
approved specifications. At a minimum, the following information is
included on the manufacturing record. Critical components are specific
to the type of equipment produced and are specified on the
manufacturing record. Critical Component ID’s are traceable to batch
records for the manufacturing process of each component.

* Unique identifiers of final product and components determined to be significant

* Date of manufacture

* Employee(s) responsible for manufacture

* Equipment critical to manufacturing process

* Quantity manufactured and quantity released for distribution

* Primary identification label and labeling used for final product

* Acceptance records

The acceptance record provides documentation of acceptance activities
preformed upon completion of all manufacturing of the associated
device. Acceptance activities are a preapproved set of tests and/or
reviews utilized to verify the build, operation, and performance of
each unit prior to release for distribution.

### Status Identification

The identification of product status shall be maintained from receipt
through production and storage to distribution. Any product found to
be non-conforming shall be identified as such and controls shall be in
place to quarantine product until appropriate disposition can be
determined. Product that has passed all acceptance criteria and is
acceptable for distribution shall be identified and maintained
separately from product pending acceptance.

Product returned from external parties shall be appropriately labeled
as to not be confused with product for distribution. This label shall
remain with the product until the product has been properly
dispositioned such as refurbishment, destroyed, etc. Refurbished
product shall be differentiated from distributable product until the
product has been refurbished and passes all acceptance criteria.


## Revision History

This document  QP-0007_R1_Identification_and_Traceability_Process.md
is subject to revision. Only the latest approved version should be used.

Major revisions are enumerated below.
The "latest" and only official version is found in the github document management system governs all QMS activity.

REV #|Doc ID|Effective Date|Description of Change
-----|------|--------------|---------------------
01   | QP-0007|12/17/2014|Initial Release
01   | QP-0007|3/10/2020|Markdown Corrections
