---
repository: "github.com/ehwest/mdn_qms"
folder: "SOP_Standard_Operating_Procedures"
authors:
- github.com/ehwest
approvers:
- github.com/bewest
approval_date: "2020-10-01"
---

\pagebreak
# Access Controls

This document and supporting references establish controls for access to all Medical Data Networks LLC (MDN) software and any assemblies of software or configuration data supporting the T1Pal service (as a device).

This applies to all medical and research software devices designed and developed by MDN.  Each of the key technologies for implementing electronic access controls is summarized below, consistent with VP and CEO requirements to implement comprehensive controls of access to all aspects of the T1Pal operations.  

It is the policy that all employees shall be provided the most limited and/or most restrictive access to at most the most narrow set of T1Pal systems and data consistent with the tasks assigned to them based on their specific company role.   In the event that such access requirements are temporary, access controls shall revert to their most restrictive state following temporary access use.

Specific access permissions are under control of the T1DPal CEO, plus one other VP officer.   These individuals must specifically authorize all employee access settings.  Access to all infrastructure controls requires a company-issued PC/Laptop desktop password and SSH access to all other T1Pal test and production components.   Only the CEO may create and configure for use new cryptographic keys for use by others.

It is the duty of each and every associate of T1Pal to report any exceptions to this policy to the CEO, and to facilitate any corrective actions.

The following tools are currently in use by MDN so as to realize the above policy.

## Subscriber Side Access Controls

1.  **postgres Database**.

This database is referenced for comparison of encrypted subscriber-provided login and password credentials to credentials on record for such subscribers.
The database is accessible only to certified other software components for query and retrieval of subscriber settings.  Subscribers provide their credentials by submitting a form secured by SSL security encryption methods.

2. Semi-permanent network settings and network routing rules prevent subscribers from accessing data and/or configuration settings of any other subscriber.

3. Cryptographic keys generated by the T1Pal platform provide for subscriber-controlled sharing of read or read/write access to their own data.

4. Login actions taken by subscribers require authentication with Google's Single Sign On (oAuth) mechanism.   T1Pal relies on that capability for all user activity.

## Network Operations-Side Software and Configuration Access Controls

**GitHub**. [GitHub](https://www.github.com/) is the sole tool for storage of all permanent documents, drawings, agreements, and software.   

All software for all components, regardless of their provenance or use, is stored and versioned in one or more named GitHub "repositories" owned by MDN and is under access control by its officers and designated employees.   

This specifically includes all documents related to MDN's quality management system, and includes all open-sourced and/or commercial software components.  GitHub also maintains a complete set of components applicable to the several different versions of software:  Production, Staging, and Development.   

Because GitHub is a distributed storage system, the computers used by all of the company officers, and software developers, and engineers is configured to store and access the complete set of GitHub repositories used by the firm.  Access to these features are protected by two-factor authentication.   Therefore, no specific backup resource or procedure --outside of GitHub-- is needed or used when the number of copies of company Github repositories exceeds 2.

This approach enables each and every authorized employee and/or contractor to review the current, planned, and past revision history on all documents, software, and records.

## Internal Network Operations Infrastructure Access Controls.

An exchange of cryptographic keys (SSH) is used to access all servers that are part of the T1Pal infrastructure.   These cryptographic keys are themselves protected from access by strong userid/password credentials provided by the billing process of the infrastructure providers.

1. **Amazon Web Services (AWS)**. [https://aws.amazon.com](https://aws.amazon.com/). AWS is one of the cloud providers used by MDN.  Selected production MDN software is deployed to AWS. MDN also maintains non-production servers used to test software under development (&quot;dev&quot; environment) and ready to be deployed after acceptance testing (&quot;staging environment).

2. **Digital Ocean**. [Digital Ocean](https://digitalocean.com)  is one of the cloud providers used by MDN.  Selected production MDN software is deployed to Digital Ocean. MDN also maintains non-production servers used to test software under development (&quot;dev&quot; environment) and ready to be deployed after acceptance testing and staging environment).

##  Corporate Administrative Access Controls

Google gmail addresses and credentials are used exclusively to provide intra-company communications.  

All authoritative and/or permant documents are retained in the appropriate GitHub repository.

## Backups and disaster recovery

1. All Google Drive contents are backed up by Google under contract with MDN.  
Two-factor authentication is required for all access.
2. All Google Drive and Google Vault backups are retained in perpetuity.   Two-factor authentication is required for access.
3. All email is stored via Google Apps email and automatically backed up in Google Vault and is retained in perpetuity (including deleted emails). Two-factor authentication is required for access.
4. Redundant and duplicative distribution of GitHub-based repositories are retained on the primary computers of all officers, developers, and engineers.  This eliminates the need for a separate and independent back up system.  All of the software, documents, etc. are stored in the distributed GitHub-based system.  Single-factor authentication is required for access.  Two-factor authentication is required to read or publish changes in staging and production environments.

